Tony Kaizen:
Alright, my friend. So the first question I got for you is,
if you had to listen to three albums for the rest of your
life, which albums would they be?
Tiger:
Uh...probably Rumours by Fleetwood Mac. Jeez, that's a hard
question to answer on the spot like that, but definitely
Rumours by Fleetwood Mac, that's my favorite album for sure.
Uh...probably Dark Side of the Moon by Pink Floyd. I mean, I
call...I'm always in the mood for that. And I don't know,
I'm really liking this Portugal the Man album. It's called
uh...fuck my life. Yeah, I don't know. But there's this
Portugal...it's like, man, it's a long...it's a long name.
It's like, "mountain on a cloud", something like that. It's
like, the album cover's, like, purple with, like, a dude and
so misty. It's pretty cool. I really like all the songs on
there. I've listened to that a lot.
Tony Kaizen:
And what's it called? The name of the album?
Tiger:
I can look it up.
Tony Kaizen:
Uh the...the artist I mean.
Tiger:
Portugal. The Man.
Tony Kaizen:
Tiger:
Yeah. They're like a rock band from Alaska.
Tony Kaizen:
Oh, okay. Interesting name.
Tiger:
Yeah, they're...They were at Shaky Knees a couple of years
ago.
Tony Kaizen:
Portugal. The Man. Yeah, just like actually describing the
cover, now I want to go check it out or something.
Tiger:
It's a nice song. Yeah. I'm into, like, indie alternative
rock kind of stuff, so, they're like right up my alley.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah, do you like Blink, Green Day, that type of stuff, too?
Tiger:
I listened to Green Day back in the day, uh you know, while
I was going through my angsty seventh grade, you know,
puberty phase. Blink 182 I can never really get into,
they're a little bit too much for me, but Green Day for
sure. Like, I'll listen to that shit nonstop. Yeah. Yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay, nice man. Alright. So my next question is, what are
three things that you cannot live without?
Tiger:
Three things I cannot live without? Besides, like, the
obvious, like, food and water?
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah,exactly.
Tiger:
I don't know...like, but can it be more...like, what are
other answers...?
Tony Kaizen:
Let me think of a different way to ask the question. What
are...if you could only take three things to a desert island
that you were gonna stay on for the next 18 months, what
would you take with you?
Tiger:
Oh okay, I'd probably take...I'd probably take an MP3 player
with some of my favorite songs. I would take...I
mean, I'd take books, but I guess I had to choose one book?
Is that...is that part of the...dang! Yeah, that's hard.
Tony Kaizen:
What type of stuff do you like to read? What genre?
Tiger:
I mean, I like to read non-fiction, but it's like you can't
reread non-fiction. You know what I mean? Like, like like I
read...I read autobiographies, you know, I read non-fiction
stuff. Like, I read, you know, like I read this one book
recently. It's about...it's about the dude that created the
Silk Road. It's called American Linchpin King...American
Kingpin. Uh but it's like once you read it, like it's, you
know...You know all the things that happen so it's like
you're not going to reread it. I guess my favorite fiction
book I've read... Honestly, I really liked uh...A
Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens when I was growing up.
I can probably reread that book. I can probably read that
one a good bout. And then...what else do I bring on the
desert island with me?
Tony Kaizen:
So you got music, books. What's the third thing?
Tiger:
I don't know. I'll probably bring...I'll probably bring
like, the first 15 seasons of The Simpsons with me.
That was my favorite show growing up.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay.
Tiger:
I'll watch every single episode of The Simpsons when I was a
kid cos like, that came on at like 5:00. My parents got home
from work at 5:30, so I always like, I always watch...like
yeah. And like, it was like, from like probably fourth
grade, to like eighth grade, and like every day after school
I just watch The Simpsons when it came on Fox at 5:00. And
then yeah, as soon as I heard the garage door open, I just
run to my room pretending I was doing homework all the time.
But yeah, I'll probably bring those things with me.
Tony Kaizen:
Have you ever put any thought into the...the idea that...or
the reason that they're so good at predicting so many things
on that show?
Tiger:
I mean, it's just there's so many episodes and they just,
you know, like they just do so many things. I feel like just
by sheer chance, just yeah, it's just random. And also, I
mean, there's like throughout history, there's always common
themes. Like there's always going to be like the asshole
dictator that takes over power, like Trump or whatever.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tiger:
There's always going to be like common motifs, like
corporate greed, you know, cheat on your wife, lust. You
know, that just happens...
Tony Kaizen:
That's true.
...over time anyway. So yeah.
Yeah. Alright.
So my next question is, if all jobs paid the same and you
could do any job starting tomorrow, which job would you do?
Tiger:
I'd probably be like a sports journalist of some sort. I
really like sports. The thing is, like growing up, I was
always good at math and science and I sucked at English, you
know? So it's really ironic that I would say that. But, but
like, I've like...as I've grown up, I've gained an
appreciation for good writing and good novels and good
storytelling. So yeah, I mean, I would want to do something
where it's like I'm kind of like expressing my opinion about
something and like kind of adding value to yeah...cos I
don't know, like I feel like especially in mainstream media,
like you don't really hear a lot of like you don't have a
lot of Chinese-Americans or Asian Americans in general, like
in mainstream media expressing like their experience in
life. Like right now it's like, you know, like black people
are having their moment, you know, like um...everyone has
their turn, right? But it's like, you know, you see a lot
of...you see a lot of movies like, with like where they're
hiring like more black actors and actresses and whatnot. But
yeah, I feel like American...like, like Asians that grew up
in America are way different than Asians that grew up in
Asia...
Tony Kaizen:
Hundred percent.
Tiger:
You know? And I feel like that subsection of American life
is not really represented 100% right now. So, yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Out of curiosity, what would you say are some of the main
differences between Asians born and raised in the US and
Asians from their respective countries?
Tiger:
Dude, everything. Like the way we view, the way we view the
world, like the way like...we interact with people like,
like...Asian like...so like for instance, I'm not like, I'm
Chinese-American. I moved here around six years old, but I'm
American as like, anyone around here. But like, like, for
instance, I can't really make friends with Chinese-Chinese
people because first of all, the language barrier, and
second of all, like, again, like when you grow up in China
in like a communist regime and all that stuff, they just
view the world differently. And also the people that are
able to make it from China to here after a certain point in
time, especially the kids that come here for college, so
they're like, you know, 20...18 to 20 years old when they
come over here, um...usually those type of kids are
only...are super rich. Like they're only like...they're
pretty much only allowed to come here cos they can afford
it. So obviously I can't relate with that because I grew up
kind of poor growing up. And yeah, just, you know, just
cultural stuff like, you know, pop culture references,
jokes...just like general American, you know, whatever, like
they're not going to understand cos again, they grew up in
China, so it's like, it's hard to...Anyway, I can't really
connect with them and all that stuff, like, I didn't grow up
in, I didn't grow up in China like they did.
Tony Kaizen:
Right.
Tiger:
So, so yeah.
It's just, you know, you naturally hang out with people you
have common beliefs and whatever with. For me, it's American
kids cos I'm, you know, I grew up...I grew up in Texas and
you know, so yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Have you ever had any experience where maybe you got treated
differently or even worse by Chinese people from China
because you're not like a real Chinese person or things like
that?
Tiger:
Oh, kinda. I mean, like...my Chinese is terrible, right? So
like, so like they'll make fun of you for, like, not
speaking proper Chinese because it's like, you're like,
losing your heritage or whatever, which is like a big thing
to them. So yeah, I mean, they'll like, make fun of you for
it, but it's like, dude, I don't know, I can't. Yeah, you
know, I got...I live in America. All my friends are white.
Like, I have no one to speak Chinese with except my parents,
you know? So it is what it is.
Tony Kaizen:
Did they, like, force you to learn it when you were a kid?
Did they speak Chinese at home when you were a kid?
Tiger:
They speak...so the thing is, they spoke English to me when
I was a kid, because they wanted me to become as American as
possible, as quickly as possible, so I can like get along
with people in school and like...like I remember, so I
remember when I first started kindergarten and even first
grade, I barely understood anything my teacher was saying to
me. And I basically like, like just get through the day just
by, like, following all the other kids around and just like,
"Oh, it's lunch time, I guess. Yeah, I guess everyone's
going to the lunchroom. I guess we're eating lunch again",
you know? It's one...like one of those things. I remember,
like, one of my first memories in first grade was like
so...in, in our like table that we sat at, there was always
like a basket full of books that you can like, just kind of
browse and read in your free time. And I remember just like
flipping through the pages and just not understand a single
fucking word, you know? And I just would just literally look
at the pictures and just kind of flip through 'em, and
like...and all the other kids, like, you know, they grew up
with, you know, in America. They could speak...or read
English little bit quicker than I could. So yeah, just stuff
like that. Um, you know, it was a little hard growing up.
Tony Kaizen:
Did the kids, like, pick on you and make fun of you because
you couldn't speak the same level of English?
Tiger:
Well, yeah, everyone gets bullied. I mean, I got bullied. I
feel like everyone gets bullied growing up. But yeah, you
know, it's an easy...it's an easy target, you know, Chinese
kid and can't really speak English, small, whatever.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got it. I got it. Alright. So my next
question for you is, you mentioned the difference between
like Chinese-Americans and Chinese people from China, so how
would you describe American people because we really are
like a melting pot? So when I say that, what comes to mind?
Tiger:
Nothing in particular, to be honest, cos again, yeah,
America is a melting pot. Like, like us, we're staying right
here, like this would never happen anywhere else in the
world, you know? So yeah, I mean, I don't know. I can't
really just...you can't really define an American. It's
funny as so, like, so...like so in Chinese culture, food is
very important, right? And obviously, Chinese food is a very
distinct, you know, cuisine. And, you know, even different
regions have different type of foods. So like...and with
Americans, we don't have like...an American...
Tony Kaizen:
Exactly.
Tiger:
...there's no such thing as American food.
Tony Kaizen:
Like fast food, it's pretty much...
Tiger:
I guess burgers, but it's like...but even burgers weren't
even invented in America. But so it's like...like, yeah, I
don't think America has a certain identity in a way. It's
just, it's just a hodgepodge of everything. And the common
thing is everyone just wants to live the best life they can.
That's the one thing that's really in common with everyone.
So yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Do you think that's helpful or hurtful to the culture that
that idea that you can kind of be free to do whatever you
want and be whoever you want, or you feel like it would be
more advantageous to take, let's say a Chinese way of
viewing the world, which is we need to be a community and we
need to assimilate and things of that nature?
Tiger:
That's tough, because like...like there's pros and cons to
both like, like Chinese culture....like, yeah, I guess it is
better for certain aspects when everyone looks the same and
acts the same and like has a common, I guess, whatever
binding 'em together.
Tony Kaizen:
Set of values?
Tiger:
Yeah. Yeah. Which is, which is how the Communist Party is so
effective over there, you know, cos it's like, "Oh well, if
you're not locked down for three months cos of COVID, you're
not...you're not a real Chinese person. You're not...you're
not loyal to the government, you're not loyal to your
people." But at the same time, it's like, I like America cos
like, you can kind of like take bits and pieces of other
people's culture and just kind of take what you...what you
value and what you think is right, and just make it your
own. Like, for instance, like Chinese people, it's a pretty
misogynistic culture for the most part, or at least maybe
not this generation, but for a long time it was. So it's
like, I don't know, like growing up as a kid, like if you're
in China, like, that's just how you treat women and that's
how you treat people, right? Cos that's how everyone else
did it. But in America, it's like, "Okay, well, Joe,"...the
white people...Like they're nice to their kids or like
whatever, like, they play baseball. Like they don't have to
study their SATs starting from third grade.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tiger:
So, like, maybe that's a better way to raise a family. I
don't know. So, so you can like kind of take bits and pieces
of other people you meet and kind of like, just, you know,
like try to make the best out of it. That's how I see it.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay. Nice, man. Give me your name again.
Tiger:
I'm Tiger.
Tony Kaizen:
Tiger. Okay. Tiger, thank you, man. We appreciate your time.